content/author/index.md, before:

---
title: "Author"
date: 2021-09-22T16:50:55-04:00
strapline: "Answers to questions you've never cared about."
draft: false
menu: "main"
type: "author"
---

**Hi, I'm Dave Shanley.**

I'm a hacker, product guy, software architect, inventor, technical leader, and [failed musician.](https://open.spotify.com/artist/3GQKa1b5anj2SX4km56oPN)

I have about twenty-five years of experience with designing and building software and software products across various industries and businesses.

My specialty is **Experience Engineering**, which _generally means_ that I design and build technology that you **_engage with_** as a consumer.

I work as a **Distinguished Engineer** at [Splunk](https://splunk.com)

## Making complex things feel simple and intuitive.

My **ultimate goal**, Creating the **_big red 'easy' button_**.

The easy button means abstracting away a lot of different technological complexities.

All those complexities are **pretty cool** because it means I get to touch a lot of *fast-moving* tech. 

I _generally_ specialize in UI, CLI, API, and developer experience (DX); however, I've designed and built across a **large landscape**. 

I've had the pleasure of architecting and building multiple platforms, SaaS products, developer tools, frameworks, games, and enterprise-scale management systems.

I am also the founder (and chief buckaroo) of [princess beef heavy industries](https://pb33f.io).

{{< default-box >}}
In case you're interested in learning more, I have written an **[article on experience engineering]({{< ref "articles/experience-engineering" >}})**.
{{< /default-box >}}

## Contact
- Email: dave@quobix.com
- [LinkedIn Profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/daveshanley/)
- [Twitter (@daveshanley)](https://twitter.com/daveshanley)
- [Youtube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@quobix)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/daveshanley)
- [pb33f](https://pb33f.io)

Commit message:

Updated name on author page.
Signed-off-by: Dave Shanley <dave@quobix.com>

content/author/index.md, after:

---
title: "Author"
date: 2021-09-22T16:50:55-04:00
strapline: "Answers to questions you've never cared about."
draft: false
menu: "main"
type: "author"
---

**Hi, My name is quobix.[^1]**

I'm a hacker, product guy, software architect, inventor, technical leader, and [failed musician.](https://open.spotify.com/artist/3GQKa1b5anj2SX4km56oPN)

I have about twenty-five years of experience with designing and building software and software products across various industries and businesses.

My specialty is **Experience Engineering**, which _generally means_ that I design and build technology that you **_engage with_** as a consumer.

I work as a **Distinguished Engineer** at [Splunk](https://splunk.com)

## Making complex things feel simple and intuitive.

My **ultimate goal**, Creating the **_big red 'easy' button_**.

The easy button means abstracting away a lot of different technological complexities.

All those complexities are **pretty cool** because it means I get to touch a lot of *fast-moving* tech. 

I _generally_ specialize in UI, CLI, API, and developer experience (DX); however, I've designed and built across a **large landscape**. 

I've had the pleasure of architecting and building multiple platforms, SaaS products, developer tools, frameworks, games, and enterprise-scale management systems.

I am also the founder (and chief buckaroo) of [princess beef heavy industries](https://pb33f.io).

{{< default-box >}}
In case you're interested in learning more, I have written an **[article on experience engineering]({{< ref "articles/experience-engineering" >}})**.
{{< /default-box >}}

## Contact
- Email: dave@quobix.com
- [LinkedIn Profile](https://www.linkedin.com/in/daveshanley/)
- [Twitter (@daveshanley)](https://twitter.com/daveshanley)
- [Youtube Channel](https://www.youtube.com/@quobix)
- [GitHub](https://github.com/daveshanley)
- [pb33f](https://pb33f.io)

[^1]: My real name is Dave Shanley, but I go by my handle 'quobix' on the interwebs.
